# MODEL1212040000: MODEL1212040000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1212040000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1212040000.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import MODEL1212040000 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


Karlstaedt2012 - CardioNet, A Human Metabolic Network

CardioNet is a functionally validated metabolic network of the human
cardiomyocyte that enables theorectical studies of cellular metabolic
processes.

This model is described in the article:

[CardioNet: A human metabolic network suited for the study of cardiomyocyte
metabolism.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22929619)

Karlstaedt A, Fliegner D, Kararigas G, Ruderisch HS, Regitz-Zagrosek V,
Holzh√ºtter HG.

BMC Syst Biol. 2012 Aug 29;6(1):114.

Abstract:

BACKGROUND: Availability of oxygen and nutrients in the coronary circulation
is a crucial determinant of cardiac performance. Nutrient composition of
coronary blood may significantly vary in specific physiological and
pathological conditions, for example, administration of special diets, long-
term starvation, physical exercise or diabetes. Quantitative analysis of
cardiac metabolism from a systems biology perspective may help to a better
understanding of the relationship between nutrient supply and efficiency of
metabolic processes required for an adequate cardiac output. RESULTS: Here we
present CardioNet, the first large-scale reconstruction of the metabolic
network of the human cardiomyocyte comprising 1793 metabolic reactions,
including 560 transport processes in six compartments. We use flux-balance
analysis to demonstrate the capability of the network to accomplish a set of
368 metabolic functions required for maintaining the structural and functional
integrity of the cell. Taking the maintenance of ATP, biosynthesis of
ceramide, cardiolipin and further important phospholipids as examples, we
analyse how a changed supply of glucose, lactate, fatty acids and ketone
bodies may influence the efficiency of these essential processes. CONCLUSIONS:
CardioNet is a functionally validated metabolic network of the human
cardiomyocyte that enables theorectical studies of cellular metabolic
processes crucial for the accomplishment of an adequate cardiac output.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels)
and identified by:
[MODEL1212040000](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/MODEL1212040000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models.
PMID: [20587024](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


